# Tsunami modelling for the Perth to Geraldton area in 2023-2024

## Part of the WA Tsunami Inundation Modelling Project with DFES

This folder is for placing high-resolution grids throughout the region from perth to Geraldton.
The main coastline in this stretch is the midwest, although it includes other areas further south down to Guilderton. The codes are derived from the [Greater Perth Modelling files](../Greater_Perth) with some modifications to the folder structure and the model setup. In particular, the elevation data, breakwalls, initial_stage regions have been updated and improved to reflect the new area. Additionally, several large buildings in Geraldtown have been included in the model elevation. With these changes, more refined inundation maps are expected in the region from Guilderton to Geraldton.

In this folder:
- An outline of how to setup the model is provided in [GENERAL_GUIDANCE_ON_MODEL_SETUP.md](GENERAL_GUIDANCE_ON_MODEL_SETUP.md).
- A summary of software that might help is in [USEFUL_TOOLS.md](USEFUL_TOOLS.md).
- An overview of the workflow with comments on the results is in [WORKFLOW.md](WORKFLOW.md).

In brief, running the model first requires setting up the elevation data, optionally breakwalls, inverts, gauges and multi-domain design (mesh). Then the model can be run with the tsunami source models, which are generated by randomly sampling scenarios using rPTHA. Thhe shallow-water like solver SWALS is used to solve the hydrodynamic equations, and the results are post-processed to produce inundation maps and hazard products in tha analysis folder.
Key folders are:

* [./analysis](./analysis) - Computations that use multiple simulated scenarios to produce outputs. Such as hazard products, and inundation maps that correspond to JATWC categories.
* [./breakwalls](./breakwalls) - Create 3d lines that are burned into the elevation model, to enforce breakwalls and other local high-points irrespective of model resolution.
* [./elevation](./elevation) - Elevation data + preference order for the SWALS model
* [./inverts](./inverts) - Create 3d lines that are burned into the elevation model, to enforce channels and other local low-points irrespective of model resolution.
* [./gauges](./gauges) - Locations of point-gauge output used in the SWALS model
* [./multidomain_design](./multidomain_design) - Create the boxes defining domains in the multidomain
* [./sources](./sources) - Tsunami source models
* [./swals](./swals) - Hydrodynamic model
* [.swals/outputs](./swals/outputs) - Output from the hydrodynamic model (not on github)
